Chapter 4 content - 4, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4 & Chapter 5 packaging (#834)
holochain/holochain-rust: doc/holochain_101/src/zome/entry_type_definitions.md

# App Entry Type Definitions

> An "entry" is a data element that an agent authors to their local device, that is then propogated to peers running the same app. The entry is backed by a "chain header", which is the data element used for verification of the integrity of itself, as well as the entry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An "entry" is a data element that an agent authors to their source-chain (stored on their local device), which is then propagated to peers. The entry is backed by a "chain header", which is the data element used for verification of the integrity of itself, as well as the entry.
```

Entries are a fundamental, primitive type within Holochain. Entries are an abstraction, they can technically be persisted to a device in a variety of ways, using a variety of databases, which can be as simple as files in the file system.

There are types of entries which cannot be written to the chain by users of an application. These are generally called system entries. They include DNA, and initial Agent entries, which are always the first two entries written to a chain.

> There are a special type of entries called App Entries. These are entries which are created through the active use of an application by a user. They must have an entry type which, rather than being system defined, is defined application specific.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a special type of entries called App Entries. These are entries which are created through the active use of an application by a user. They must have an entry type which, rather than being system defined, is defined by the Zome developer.
```

#[derive(Serialize, Deserialize, Debug, DefaultJson)]
struct Post {
    content: String,
    date_created: String,
}

entry!(
    ...
    native_type: Post,
    ...
)
```

Clearly, `native_type` is where things start to get interesting. It requires the introduction of quite a number of dependencies, first of all. Why is that?

It is important to remember that the Rust code of a Zome is compiled into WASM before it can be executed by Holochain. This introduces a certain constraint. How is data passed between Holochain, and the WASM Zome code? Answer: it is stored in the WASM memory as stringified JSON data, and accessed by the WASM code and by Holochain, running the WASM interpreter. 

JSON was chosen as the interchange format because it is so universal, and almost all languages have serializers and parsers. Rust's is called `serde`. The three `serde` related dependencies all relate to the need to serialize to and from JSON within Zomes.

Note that the top line in the snippet above is important. It switches on a Rust feature that would otherwise be off, allowing attempted conversions between types, which is exactly what the JSON parsing is doing.
```rust
#![feature(try_from)]
```

> Additionally, the HDK offers built-in conversion functions from JSON strings to Entry structs. This comes from the `DefaultJson` derive.

Author: Yeah, or maybe just remove the word, and bypass the concept, as it may not have a lot of relevance to explain, generally speaking

> Additionally, the HDK offers built-in conversion functions from JSON strings to Entry structs. This comes from the `DefaultJson` derive.

Reviewer: I think we should just include it, and hyperlink to some derive documentation in rust-land.  There's a danger of not serving the people who _will_ be coding the first holochain apps by making the descriptions too simplified.

> Additionally, the HDK offers built-in conversion functions from JSON strings to Entry structs. This comes from the `DefaultJson` derive.

Author: I will hyperlink it and leave at that

```rust
#[derive(Serialize, Deserialize, Debug, DefaultJson)]
```

`Serialize` and `Deserialize` come from `serde_derive`, and `DefaultJson` comes from `holochain_core_types_derive`.

Then there is the struct itself. This is the real type definition, because it defines the schema. It is simply a list of property names, the 'keys', and the types of values expected, which should be set to one of the primitive types of the language. This will tell `serde` how to parse JSON string inputs into the type. Note that conversion from JSON strings into the struct type can easily fail, in particular if the proper keys are not present on the input.

---

__validation_package__

```rust
use hdk::ValidationPackageDefinition;

entry!(
    ...
    validation_package: || {
        ValidationPackageDefinition::Entry
    },
    ...
)
```

At the moment, what `validation_package` is will not be covered in great detail. In short, for a peer to perform validation of an entry from another peer, varying degrees of metadata from the original author of the entry might be needed. `validation_package` refers to the carrier for that extra metadata.

> Looking at the above code, there is a required import from the HDK needed for use in `validation_package`, and that's the enum `ValidationPackageDefinition`. The value of `validation_package` is a function that takes no arguments. It will be called as a callback by Holochain. The result should be a value from the `ValidationPackageDefinition` enum, whose values can be [seen here TODO place  link](). In the example, and as the most basic option, simply use `Entry`, which means no extra metadata beyond the entry itself is needed.

Reviewer 2: https://developer.holochain.org/api/latest/hdk/enum.ValidationPackageDefinition.html

            sharing: Sharing::Public,
            native_type: Post,
            validation_package: || {
                ValidationPackageDefinition::Entry
            },
            validation: |_post: Post, _validation_data: ValidationData| {
                Ok(())
            }
        )
    ]

    genesis: || {
        Ok(())
    }

    functions: {}
}
```

If there is only entry type, this can be fine, but if there are multiple, this can hurt readability of the source code. You can wrap the entry type definition in a function, and call it in `define_zome!`, like so:
```rust
...
fn post_definition() -> ValidatingEntryType {
    entry!(
        name: "post",
        description: "A blog post entry which has an author",
        sharing: Sharing::Public,
        native_type: Post,

        validation_package: || {
            hdk::ValidationPackageDefinition::Entry
        },

        validation: |_post: Post, _validation_data: hdk::ValidationData| {
            Ok(())
        }
    )
}

define_zome! {
    entries: [
        post_definition()
    ]

    genesis: || {
        Ok(())
    }

    functions: {}
}
```

Use of this technique can help you write clean, modular code.

> If you want to look closely at a complete example of the use of `entry!` in a Zome, check out the [API reference TODO place link](), or the ["app-spec" example app TODO place link]().

Reviewer 2: https://developer.holochain.org/api/latest/hdk/macro.entry.html
https://github.com/holochain/holochain-rust/blob/develop/app_spec/zomes/blog/code/src/post.rs#L46-L73
